README.md, before:

![Crazy Thursday Banner](./title.jpg)

# Team Members

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th>Name</th>
            <th>UID</th>
            <th>Profile</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Li Yitong</td>
            <td>3036289377</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Lyt060814"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Lyt060814" alt="Li Yitong" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Qu Sijin</td>
            <td>3036289676</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Rosette2048"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Rosette2048" alt="Qu Sijin" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Xue Hengtai</td>
            <td>3036289391</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/R1card0xht"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/R1card0xht" alt="Xue Hengtai" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Yu Chuhan</td>
            <td>3036449006</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Yu-Chuhan"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Yu-Chuhan" alt="Yu Chuhan" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Zhao Dingcheng</td>
            <td>3036292283</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/sh0redry"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/sh0redry" alt="Zhao Dingcheng" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Zheng Yilin</td>
            <td>3036289195</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Yilinss27"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Yilinss27" alt="Zheng Yilin" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD033-->

# Quick Start

```bash
make
./bin/game
```

- Press *Enter* to start/continue.
- Press *W/A/S/D*  to move or change the selection in the home or in the fight.
- Press *L* to show the game status and data.
- Press *H* to delete all the change and return to home.
- Tips:
    - DO NOT press *enter* many times, otherwise it may cause unexpected scene skipping.

# Description

:wave: **Welcome to a post-apocalyptic world built with C++!** You are the leader of a shelter in a world overrun by zombies. Guide your survivors to gather resources, explore the wasteland, and hold out until rescue arrives.  

The year is 2025. A zombie outbreak has erupted at HKU, and you and your teammates have built a makeshift shelter. The infected—former classmates—still retain strange habits, like becoming inactive on weekends. But **Thursdays** are different: zombies grow more aggressive, posing both danger and opportunity.  

Within your sanctuary's limited operational capacity, you and fellow survivors must strategically select a single task per day. Will you harvest gold coins from the mine to upgrade your defensive arsenal, or cultivate crops to sustain your population? Or you may venture into the chaotic wastelands with your companions – where every expedition balances between claiming glory or suffering disgrace. **Strategic allocation of labor will determine your survival odds!**

When **crimson Thursday** dawns – that cursed cycle triggering the horde's primal rage – zombies unleash their frenzied siege, battering against your defenses with unnatural ferocity. This is your trial by fire: deploy strategic mastery to fortify your stronghold, channeling every upgraded turret and stockpiled resource. **Hold the line until dawn brings salvation... or die trying!**

This world blends **base-building, tactical combat, and roguelike randomness**—no two playthroughs are the same. Forge your own path to survival. **The wasteland awaits!**

# Game Implementation
## File Structure
```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Crazy Thursday] --> E[ui/]
    A --> F[anim/]
    A --> D[src/]
    A --> B[Makefile]
    A --> C[README.md]
    
    D --> D1[main.cpp]
    D --> D2[Utils/]
    D --> D3[Core/]
    D --> D4[Counters/]
    D --> D5[UI/]
    D --> D6[Combat/]
    
    D2 --> D2a[Random.h]
    D2 --> D2b[Constants.h]
    D2 --> D2c[SpecialFunctions.h/cpp]
    
    D3 --> D3a[Game.h/cpp]
    D3 --> D3b[Player.h/cpp]
    D3 --> D3c[WeekCycle.h/cpp]
    D3 --> D3d[Difficulty.h]
    
    D4 --> D4a[CounterBase.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4b[CounterFactory.h]
    D4 --> D4c[Explore.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4d[Farming.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4e[Mining.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4f[Recruit.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4g[Shop.h/cpp]
    
    D5 --> D5a[UI.h/cpp]
    D5 --> D5b[Terminal.h/cpp]
    D5 --> D5c[Animation.h/cpp]
    
    D6 --> D6a[Combat.h/cpp]
    D6 --> D6b[Weapon.h/cpp]
    D6 --> D6c[Zombie.h/cpp]

    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style D fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style E fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style F fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
```

## Source Code Descriptions

### Core Components
- **[Game.cpp/h](src/Core/Game.h)**: Manages the main game loop, state transitions, and overall game flow
- **[Player.cpp/h](src/Core/Player.h)**: Handles player data, survivor management, and resource tracking
- **[WeekCycle.cpp/h](src/Core/WeekCycle.h)**: Controls the game's time system and zombie behavior patterns
- **[Difficulty.h](src/Core/Difficulty.h)**: Defines game difficulty levels and their associated parameters

### Game Mechanics
- **[CounterBase.cpp/h](src/Counters/CounterBase.h)**: Base class for all game counters and activities
- **[CounterFactory.h](src/Counters/CounterFactory.h)**: Implements the factory pattern for creating different types of counters
- **[Explore.cpp/h](src/Counters/Explore.h)**: Manages exploration mechanics and resource discovery
- **[Farming.cpp/h](src/Counters/Farming.h)**: Handles crop growth and food production
- **[Mining.cpp/h](src/Counters/Mining.h)**: Controls resource gathering and mining operations
- **[Recruit.cpp/h](src/Counters/Recruit.h)**: Manages survivor recruitment and population
- **[Shop.cpp/h](src/Counters/Shop.h)**: Handles trading and upgrades

### Combat System
- **[Combat.cpp/h](src/Combat/Combat.h)**: Core combat mechanics and battle resolution
- **[Weapon.cpp/h](src/Combat/Weapon.h)**: Weapon properties and combat calculations
- **[Zombie.cpp/h](src/Combat/Zombie.h)**: Zombie behavior, stats, and special abilities

### User Interface
- **[UI.cpp/h](src/UI/UI.h)**: Main interface system and screen management
- **[Terminal.cpp/h](src/UI/Terminal.h)**: Terminal display and text rendering
- **[Animation.cpp/h](src/UI/Animation.h)**: Game animations and visual effects

### Utilities
- **[Constants.h](src/Utils/Constants.h)**: Game constants and configuration values
- **[Random.h](src/Utils/Random.h)**: Random number generation utilities
- **[SpecialFunctions.cpp/h](src/Utils/SpecialFunctions.h)**: Helper functions used throughout the game

## Data Flow
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant M as main.cpp
    participant G as Game
    participant P as Player
    participant C as Counters
    participant B as Combat
    participant U as UI
    
    M ->> G: Start Game
    G ->> U: Play Opening Animation
    U -->> G: Animation Complete
    
    loop Daily Cycle
        G ->> U: Show Home Screen
        U ->> G: Pass Player Choice
        alt Choose Counter
            G ->> C: Enter Counter
            C ->> P: Update Resources/Personnel
            C -->> G: Return Result
        else Thursday Combat
            G ->> B: Trigger Combat
            B ->> P: Update Combat Results
            B -->> G: Return Victory/Defeat
        end
        G ->> U: Update Status Display
    end
    
    alt Game Victory
        G ->> U: Play Win Animation
    else Game Defeat
        G ->> U: Play Lose Animation
    end
    U -->> M: Exit Game
```

Commit message:

Update README.md: Add contributions section detailing team members' roles and responsibilities, highlighting their specific contributions to the project and acknowledging their efforts.

README.md, after:

![Crazy Thursday Banner](./title.jpg)

# Team Members

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th>Name</th>
            <th>UID</th>
            <th>Profile</th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Li Yitong</td>
            <td>3036289377</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Lyt060814"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Lyt060814" alt="Li Yitong" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Qu Sijin</td>
            <td>3036289676</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Rosette2048"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Rosette2048" alt="Qu Sijin" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Xue Hengtai</td>
            <td>3036289391</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/R1card0xht"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/R1card0xht" alt="Xue Hengtai" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Yu Chuhan</td>
            <td>3036449006</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Yu-Chuhan"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Yu-Chuhan" alt="Yu Chuhan" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Zhao Dingcheng</td>
            <td>3036292283</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/sh0redry"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/sh0redry" alt="Zhao Dingcheng" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Zheng Yilin</td>
            <td>3036289195</td>
            <td><a href="https://github.com/Yilinss27"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/Yilinss27" alt="Zheng Yilin" width=50></a></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD033-->

## Contributions

- [Li Yitong](https://github.com/Lyt060814): Lead developer responsible for core game architecture and system design. Implemented [main game classes](src/Core/) and [terminal settings](src/UI/Terminal.h) (Game, Player, Terminal), developed [necessary utilities](src/Utils/), handled code refactoring and optimization, enhanced game documentation, and wrote [README file](README.md).

- [Qu Sijin](https://github.com/Rosette2048): Developed animation effect ([Animation class](src/UI/Animation.h)), designed [start/end frames](anim/), implemented [Explore counter class](src/Counters/Explore.h), and contributed to game interface development.

- [Xue Hengtai](https://github.com/R1card0xht): Main designer of the whole game. Implemented [three counter classes](src/Counters/) (Farming, Mining, Recruit) and corresponding [user interfaces](ui/), developed [difficulty selection](src/Core/Difficulty.h), optimized difficulty settings, and recorded demo video.

- [Yu Chuhan](https://github.com/Yu-Chuhan): Designed [user interfaces](ui/) and implemented it ([UI class](src/UI/UI.h)), developed [Shop counter classes](src/Counters/Shop.h), Drew beautiful logo, handled copy writing and edited demo video.

- [Zhao Dingcheng](https://github.com/sh0redry): Implemented [combat system classes](src/Combat/) (Combat, Weapon, Zombie) and improved them with different difficulties, optimized game frame rate and movement logic, designed [start/end animation of combat](anim/), and wrote [README file](README.md).

- [Zheng Yilin](https://github.com/Yilinss27): Developed [Weekcycle System](src/Core/WeekCycle.h) and corresponding [user interfaces](ui/Days/), implemented [combat system classes](src/Combat/) (Combat, Weapon, Zombie), tested the game and adjusted the number settings.

> **Note:** Due to some operations like **Merge** and **Bulk Edits to .txt Files**, the GitHub metrics may not reflect our true efforts. Everyone in our team was actively involved in the project and there is no free rider.

# Quick Start

```bash
make
./bin/game
```

- Press *Enter* to start/continue.
- Press *W/A/S/D*  to move or change the selection in the home or in the fight.
- Press *L* to show the game status and data.
- Press *H* to delete all the change and return to home.
- Tips:
    - DO NOT press *enter* many times, otherwise it may cause unexpected scene skipping.

# Description

:wave: **Welcome to a post-apocalyptic world built with C++!** You are the leader of a shelter in a world overrun by zombies. Guide your survivors to gather resources, explore the wasteland, and hold out until rescue arrives.  

The year is 2025. A zombie outbreak has erupted at HKU, and you and your teammates have built a makeshift shelter. The infected—former classmates—still retain strange habits, like becoming inactive on weekends. But **Thursdays** are different: zombies grow more aggressive, posing both danger and opportunity.  

Within your sanctuary's limited operational capacity, you and fellow survivors must strategically select a single task per day. Will you harvest gold coins from the mine to upgrade your defensive arsenal, or cultivate crops to sustain your population? Or you may venture into the chaotic wastelands with your companions – where every expedition balances between claiming glory or suffering disgrace. **Strategic allocation of labor will determine your survival odds!**

When **crimson Thursday** dawns – that cursed cycle triggering the horde's primal rage – zombies unleash their frenzied siege, battering against your defenses with unnatural ferocity. This is your trial by fire: deploy strategic mastery to fortify your stronghold, channeling every upgraded turret and stockpiled resource. **Hold the line until dawn brings salvation... or die trying!**

This world blends **base-building, tactical combat, and roguelike randomness**—no two playthroughs are the same. Forge your own path to survival. **The wasteland awaits!**

# Game Implementation
## File Structure
```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Crazy Thursday] --> E[ui/]
    A --> F[anim/]
    A --> D[src/]
    A --> B[Makefile]
    A --> C[README.md]
    
    D --> D1[main.cpp]
    D --> D2[Utils/]
    D --> D3[Core/]
    D --> D4[Counters/]
    D --> D5[UI/]
    D --> D6[Combat/]
    
    D2 --> D2a[Random.h]
    D2 --> D2b[Constants.h]
    D2 --> D2c[SpecialFunctions.h/cpp]
    
    D3 --> D3a[Game.h/cpp]
    D3 --> D3b[Player.h/cpp]
    D3 --> D3c[WeekCycle.h/cpp]
    D3 --> D3d[Difficulty.h]
    
    D4 --> D4a[CounterBase.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4b[CounterFactory.h]
    D4 --> D4c[Explore.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4d[Farming.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4e[Mining.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4f[Recruit.h/cpp]
    D4 --> D4g[Shop.h/cpp]
    
    D5 --> D5a[UI.h/cpp]
    D5 --> D5b[Terminal.h/cpp]
    D5 --> D5c[Animation.h/cpp]
    
    D6 --> D6a[Combat.h/cpp]
    D6 --> D6b[Weapon.h/cpp]
    D6 --> D6c[Zombie.h/cpp]

    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style C fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style D fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style E fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style F fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
    style B fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
```

## Source Code Descriptions

### Core Components
- **[Game.cpp/h](src/Core/Game.h)**: Manages the main game loop, state transitions, and overall game flow
- **[Player.cpp/h](src/Core/Player.h)**: Handles player data, survivor management, and resource tracking
- **[WeekCycle.cpp/h](src/Core/WeekCycle.h)**: Controls the game's time system and zombie behavior patterns
- **[Difficulty.h](src/Core/Difficulty.h)**: Defines game difficulty levels and their associated parameters

### Game Mechanics
- **[CounterBase.cpp/h](src/Counters/CounterBase.h)**: Base class for all game counters and activities
- **[CounterFactory.h](src/Counters/CounterFactory.h)**: Implements the factory pattern for creating different types of counters
- **[Explore.cpp/h](src/Counters/Explore.h)**: Manages exploration mechanics and resource discovery
- **[Farming.cpp/h](src/Counters/Farming.h)**: Handles crop growth and food production
- **[Mining.cpp/h](src/Counters/Mining.h)**: Controls resource gathering and mining operations
- **[Recruit.cpp/h](src/Counters/Recruit.h)**: Manages survivor recruitment and population
- **[Shop.cpp/h](src/Counters/Shop.h)**: Handles trading and upgrades

### Combat System
- **[Combat.cpp/h](src/Combat/Combat.h)**: Core combat mechanics and battle resolution
- **[Weapon.cpp/h](src/Combat/Weapon.h)**: Weapon properties and combat calculations
- **[Zombie.cpp/h](src/Combat/Zombie.h)**: Zombie behavior, stats, and special abilities

### User Interface
- **[UI.cpp/h](src/UI/UI.h)**: Main interface system and screen management
- **[Terminal.cpp/h](src/UI/Terminal.h)**: Terminal display and text rendering
- **[Animation.cpp/h](src/UI/Animation.h)**: Game animations and visual effects

### Utilities
- **[Constants.h](src/Utils/Constants.h)**: Game constants and configuration values
- **[Random.h](src/Utils/Random.h)**: Random number generation utilities
- **[SpecialFunctions.cpp/h](src/Utils/SpecialFunctions.h)**: Helper functions used throughout the game

## Data Flow
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant M as main.cpp
    participant G as Game
    participant P as Player
    participant C as Counters
    participant B as Combat
    participant U as UI
    
    M ->> G: Start Game
    G ->> U: Play Opening Animation
    U -->> G: Animation Complete
    
    loop Daily Cycle
        G ->> U: Show Home Screen
        U ->> G: Pass Player Choice
        alt Choose Counter
            G ->> C: Enter Counter
            C ->> P: Update Resources/Personnel
            C -->> G: Return Result
        else Thursday Combat
            G ->> B: Trigger Combat
            B ->> P: Update Combat Results
            B -->> G: Return Victory/Defeat
        end
        G ->> U: Update Status Display
    end
    
    alt Game Victory
        G ->> U: Play Win Animation
    else Game Defeat
        G ->> U: Play Lose Animation
    end
    U -->> M: Exit Game
```
